{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green128\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\cf1\f0\fs40 DOC Version 1.04\par
\fs32 Color Codes:\par
Finished\par
\cf2 In Progress\par
\cf3 Further Down The List (tm)\par
\par
\cf1  - Age of Stone -\par
\cf3\fs28\par
\cf1\fs24 INTRODUCTION\par
\tab - Intro/Theme\par
\tab - History\par
\cf3\par
\cf2 GAME\par
\tab - Chargen\par
\cf1\tab\tab 1. Layout\par
\tab\tab 2. Abilities (and Impediments)\par
\cf3\tab\tab 3. Skills\par
\tab - Gameplay\par
\tab\tab 1. Life and Death\par
\tab\tab 2. Time\par
\tab\tab 3. Weather\par
\tab\tab 4. Real Fast Food\par
\tab\tab 5. Items/Objects (Weapons, Tools, and Fashion Statements)\par
\tab - World\par
\tab\tab 1. Terrain\par
\tab\tab 2. Species\par
\tab\tab 3. Climate\par
\tab - Combat\par
\tab\tab 1. \par
\cf1\tab\tab 2. Styles\par
\cf3\tab\tab 3. \par
\tab - Music (Who done said we ain't cultured?)\par
\tab\tab 1. \par
\tab\tab 2. \par
\tab\tab 3. \par
\cf0\fs20\par
\par
\cf3\fs24 INTRODUCTION\par
\par
Intro/Theme\par
\cf0\fs20\tab Throughout the evolution of MUDding, advances in code, swelling of playerbases, and quests for personal digital glory, I feel important elements have been lost.  Players rarely take caution.  Fear is something inspired by players, not felt by them.  The challenge has lessened.  In light of this view, ideas began to take shape to bring about a harder, more challenging, more realistic mud.\par
\tab Environment has taken less of a role in the past because AI of mobs has taken precedent.  When MUDding, we consider what our characters wear as equipment only based on what antagonistic forces they may encounter.  Nature is never considered, never mind that's it's 120 degrees in the desert.  This MUD will attempt to go against the stream as far as respecting the forces of nature as well as the forces of man and beasts.\par
\tab Due to my great love for the Wheel of Time series written by Robert Jordan, several of its elements have been incorporated into the game.  Most notably, the world's history.\par
\par
\cf3\fs24 History\cf0\fs20\par
\tab Time is a Wheel with seven spokes, each spoke representing an Age.  The Wheel turns and Ages pass and come around again on a new turning.  The Ages are Growth, Legends, Heroes, Light, War, Shadow, and Stone.  The Age of Stone MUD is based on the beginning of the Seventh Age.  Since little is known about other Ages I have taken liberty to reinvent the Wheel, if I may be forgiven.\par
\tab Following Tarmon Gai'don and the successful sealing of the Dark One's prison and the consolidation of power, an Age of Light commenced and an era peace began.  The recording of years and events have since been lost, but it is known that this Age ended when individuals began to lust for power more than peace.  The Age of War was ushered in, and nations fought against each other.  The early recordings of the Age of War also have been lost, and what is known of this Age is truly the precursor to the Age of Shadow.\par
\par
\par
\par
\tab Towards the end of Age of War, there were four empires.  Names lost to us, I will call them North, South, East, and West.  Oldest of these empires was the East.  The East did its best to stand clear of fighting, but was often pulled into conflicts.  Towards the end of the Age of War, the rulers of the East secretly devised a plan to defeat the other three empires and unite the world into a second Age of Light.  Stories told of the Last Battle, a mountain of death and darkness, and of the great evil power trapped inside it.  The rulers of the East decided that a power great enough to require a concentrated effort of all three empires before the peace could possibly destroy them while they quarrled.\par
\tab The rulers acted with great secrecy, for it was agreed that if the other three empires learned of the plan, they would all unite and strike down the East.  In the quiet of a night, the Eastern Singers, who made fires and shook earth, flew to the mountain of death and opened a hole where the evil was kept.  The Singers knew the tales of the Shadow, and so made the hole very tiny, smaller than one could put a finger through.  Once the hole was made, the Shadow lashed out but was stopped by the Singers.  After this first show, the evil subsided.  The Singers waited days and weeks, watching for a sign that it was still there, but nothing happened.  It was decided that the Shadow  was still trapped, and making the hole larger would be dangerous.  When the Singers returned to the East, they were slain by the rulers to hide the attempt.  The Age of Shadow had silently begun\par
\tab The first centuries passed with war, and the numbers of men dwindled.  Then, in dreams to Four men, the Shadow whispered.  These men journeyed to the mountain of death and there the Shadow ruled their souls.  Shortly after returning to their homelands, each of the Four rose to great power and enticed the empires to war once again.  Gaining rank, the Four sent other men of courage and honor against each other, and all four empires grew weaker and weaker.\par
\tab The Singers grew weary of war and several decided to put an end to it.  Flying to the North empire, they sought the house of one of the Four, who had made himself Chief.  After they arrived, the Singers lost their Voices and were slain.  In the following days, Singers who flew to the North lost their Voice, but found it would return if they walked or rode back into the south.  After much discussion it was decided that the Shadow had somehow escaped and made it impossible to Sing.\tab  The Shadowlands, as they were being called, spread further south, and the Singers fled before it.  The People of the Sea took the Singers and many others south in boats, to a great island.  After the Singers' departure, winter colder than any before touched the land and water, creating enormous glaciers that dug land and pressed it beneath the waves.  Once on the island, the Singers began to prepare for a battle to stop the Shadowlands.\par
\tab Two Singers, Naidim and Casita, feared that the battle would fail, and so they each Sung ter'angreal to protect those alive on the island.  Casita Sang into a mountain and a wall of air surrounded the land.  Naidim Sang four songs, each to a stone, and they gave the gift of Singing to instruments of music.  After this was done, Naidim and Casita Sang wells so that the Singers would have a Voice in the Shadowlands.\par
\tab Thirteen Singers Sang Flying to the mountain of death, with three Singers guarding them.  The other Singers with their wells stepped on the mountain of death and fought the Four and their armies.  The battle raged, and seeing their armies dying, the Four flew through the hole in the air Sung by the thirteen Singers.  The Singers on the island died, killed by beasts of the West and the Four.  The hole in the air disappeared.  The Singers who had flown into the Shadowlands were never seen again.\par
\tab Watching from a hill, men were saddened when they saw the Singers die.  They had wanted to join the Singers in battle with their new instruments that could Sing, but were told that they would not be able to play in the Shadowlands.  With anger they took up a tune, and the Four died in painful howls.  Again they played, and the beasts of the West scattered into the forests.  The Shadow was defeated.\par
\tab Days after, water rose.  When it was finished, a hundred foot high wall of water pressed against the wall of air that surrounded the island.  The Age of Shadow, which some had called The Age of Ice, had ended.  That is the story of our people.\par
\par
\par
\cf3\fs24 GAME\par
\par
Chargen\par
\cf0\fs20\tab\par
\cf3\fs24 1. Layout\cf0\fs20\par
Do you wish to create a new character?     \cf4 //yes or no\cf0       \par
\cf2 YES\par
\cf0 As the player, you are responsible for the name you choose.  All names save those that are vulgar and offensive will be permitted, however names that do not fit the theme will face a small penalty to their character's attributes.  Exceptional names will be given bonuses.     \cf4 //after this statement and before asking for the name, examples of bad, acceptable, and exceptional will be given\cf0\par
\par
What is your new character's name?\par
\cf2 Grug\par
\cf4 //All players are penalized -1 in all attributes.  At validation, players with appropriate names lose the penalty, and players with //exceptional names gain a +1 bonus to all attributes.  Not sure how we're going to do negs and bonuses before ATTR are rolled\par
\cf0\par
\par
\cf4 //a description of bonuses for each gender will be omitted so we do not have to hear women telling us that women are as strong as //men.  since no one but IMM will see stats, no one will catch on\par
\cf0 Is Grug male or female?\par
\cf2 Transvestite\cf0\par
\cf4 //Male has a +1 STR +1 CON\par
//Female has a +1 DEX +1 AGL\par
\cf0\par
As a general rule, smaller creatures are faster, larger animals are stronger and tougher.\par
Is Grug's stature small, medium, or large?\par
\cf2 Medium\cf0\par
\cf4 //Small has a +1 DEX +1 AGL -1 STR -1 CON\par
//Medium has no modifications\par
//Large has a -1 DEX -1 AGL +1 STR +1 CON\par
\cf0\par
\par
There are four regions on the island.  Each region has its own capital, dialect, and complimentary skills.  The regions are:\par
Rhuid (Desert)           Cier (Grasslands)             Avend (Jungle)        Hamand (Mountains)\par
\par
What is the region of your birth?\par
\cf2 Rhuid\cf0\par
\cf4 //racial skills TBD\cf0\par
\par
\par
There are six attributes of a character.\par
Strength - Determines how hard you hit, how much you lift and push\par
Agilitiy - Determines how fast you are on your feet\par
Intelegence - Determines the ease at which you learn new skills and become better at existing ones\par
Dexterity - Determines the swiftness and skill of your fingers\par
Senses - Determines the sharpness of your senses of sight, hearing, and smell\par
Constitution - Determines the hardiness of your character and the rate at which you recover from wounds\par
\par
\cf3 //insert lines for attribute selection here, get from chaz or owen\par
\cf0 Although one cannot choose the physical gifts the Light has bestowed upon them, a degree of enhancing and attrition takes place in youth, depending on what was done.\par
\par
From the list above, which attribute did you cultivate the most?\par
\cf2 Strength\cf0\par
\cf4 //the primary roll is 5d2 +2\par
//after the first selection, the attribute list will be reprinted, with or without explanations doesn't matter, minus the initial selection\par
\par
\cf1 Which attribute did you cultivate the most next?\par
\cf2 Dexterity\cf1\par
\cf4 //the secondary roll is 5d2 + 1\par
\par
//after secondary, the remaining 4 are asked similarly... selections for 3 and 4 are calculated 5d2 with no modifications, 5th selection\par
//is 5d2 - 1 and the remaining attribute is calculated 5d2 - 2\par
\par
//The remaining steps of Chargen are Abilities and Skills\par
//Abilities, which are not commands but rather innate/automatic character modifications, are selected first\par
//Abilities are covered in the next section\par
\par
\cf1 Personal abilities give the player some small edge in the game.  Everyone is allowed one Abilitiy free of charge.\par
Additional Abilities can be selected if an Impediment is also seleceted.\par
If you decline, you will recieve an undescribed, unannounced bonus to your character.\par
\par
Please select an Ability, Impediment, or None:\par
\par
\cf4 //Abilities/Impediments with short descriptions listed here.\par
//After Abilities Selection, Creation is finished.  Non-Racial skills will be added in game as players learn them.\par
\cf0\par
\par
\par
\cf3\fs24 2. Abilities (and Impediments)\cf0\fs20\par
Described below are Abilities and Impediments selectable by players during Chargen.  Abilities are not selectable at any other time, nor are they displayed in anyway to other characters.  Abilities may be listed in SCORE, TBD.\par
\par
Abilities\par
\par
Fast Feet\tab\tab You can move over short distances faster than most. \cf4 //+3 on Initiative rolls\par
\cf0 Stepping Softly\tab\tab Your footfalls are as light as snow.   \cf4 //+3 on Sneak rolls\cf0\par
Worldy Wise\tab\tab Been There, Done That, Got the Cloak.  \cf4 //Added info when you 'look' at players\cf0\par
Sharp Senses\tab\tab You notice things that slip by other people.  \cf4 //+3 on to SENSE\cf0\par
Leadership\tab\tab You know what needs to be done and how to do it.  \cf4 //Grouping penalty canceled.\par
\cf0 Master's Touch\tab\tab You're gifted at making things. \cf4 //+3 on Craft rolls\par
\cf0 Long Wind\tab\tab You exert yourself less when running and shouting. \cf4  //Run/shout penalty reduced from x3 to x2\cf0\par
Dead Eye  \tab\tab Your aim is described as deadly.  \cf4 //+ 5 On Throws\cf0\par
Ignore Terrain\tab\tab It's all downhill for you.  \cf4 //All Terrain movement penalties negated\cf0\par
Ignore Temp\tab\tab The heat and chill touch you not.  \cf4 //Negative effects caused by temp (30-110) are ignored\cf0\par
Ignore Pain\tab\tab Sufferring takes too long, so you ignore it.  \cf4 //Negative effects caused by low health are ignored.\par
\cf0 Predict Weather\tab\tab An ache in your joints or sinuses acting up, you know what's coming. \cf4 //Can predict weather.\par
\cf0 Ignore Weather\tab\tab Rain or Shine, it's all one to you.  \cf4 //Negative effects caused by weather are ignored.\par
\cf0 Perfect Pitch\tab\tab An ear for sound, learning and playing songs comes easier.\cf4  //+3 on Instrument rolls\cf0\par
Drum Playing\tab\tab You have a nack for the Instrument. \cf4  //Can play Drums\cf0\par
Flute Playing\tab\tab You have a nack for the Instrument.  \cf4 //Can play Flutes\cf0\par
Horn Playing\tab\tab You have a nack for the Instrument. \cf4  //Can play Horns\cf0\par
Harp Playing\tab\tab You have a nack for the Instrument.  \cf4 //Can play Harps\par
\cf0\par
\par
\par
Impediments\par
\par
Pride\tab\tab\tab You won't let others see you defeated.  \cf4 //Cannot flee if other PC are in the room\cf0\par
Gluttony\tab\tab You always want a second helping.  \cf4 //All food values eaten are halved\cf0\par
Selfishness\tab\tab It's yours no matter what.  Even if you don't need it. \cf4  //Cannot give items or drop items with PC present\cf0\par
Vengeance\tab\tab No score is left unsettled.  \cf4 //If attacked cannot attack anyone but assailant for 10 minutes\cf0\par
Antisocial\tab\tab People hate you.  You hate people. \cf4  //Unable to group\cf0\par
Showoff\tab\tab\tab You take unneccesary risks to impress people.  \cf4 //if PC are present, you intentionally fail 25% of Init Rolls\cf0\par
Alchoholism\tab\tab You need a strong drink to function. \cf4  //must drink alchohol every 2 rl hours or -2 to all ATTR until\par
\cf0 Prejudice\tab\tab You keep to your own.  \cf4 //cannot learn dialects, cannot group with other nationalities\cf0\par
Crippled\tab\tab\tab Due to injury or birth, you limp.  \cf4 //longer walk delay, cannot run/sneak/trackless\cf0\par
Loneliness\tab\tab You are insecure and afraid when alone.  \cf4 //-1 to ATTR if no other PC are in room\cf0\par
Paranoia\tab\tab You are wary and untrusting.  \cf4 //-1 to ATTR if PC are in room, -2 to ATTR when grouped\cf0\par
Speech Problem\tab You have trouble saying "Communication" \cf4 //cannot learn dialects, stam req for say, 25% of words mangled\cf0\par
Mute\tab\tab\tab You cannot speak. \cf4  //say and shout disabled\cf0\par
Deaf\tab\tab\tab You cannot hear.  \cf4 //can read 75% of all words in all dialects, -3 SENSE\cf0\par
Laziness\tab\tab Your Priorities are eat and sleep.  \cf4 //-1 to ATTR when grouped, 10% autorest if not hungry\cf0\par
Controll Freak\tab\tab You have to be in charge. \cf4  //you cannot be in a group you do not lead,-1 to ATTR when grouped\cf0\par
Insolence\tab\tab You think you know more than your teachers.  \cf4 //50% chance of failling learning roll\cf0\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\cf3\fs24 3. Skills\par
\cf0\fs20\par
\cf5\fs24 Standard Combat Skills:\par
\cf0\fs20\par
Melee\par
Jab\par
Slash\par
Club\par
Block\par
\par
\cf5\fs24 Survival Skills:\par
\cf0\fs20\par
Track\par
Skin\par
Butcher\par
Ignite\par
Cook\par
Waterseek\par
\par
\cf5\fs24 Movement Skills:\par
\cf0\fs20\par
Climb\par
Swim\par
Hew  prereq slash\par
\par
\cf5\fs24 Craftsman Skills:\par
\cf0\fs20\par
Carve\par
Chisel\par
Make  prereq carve/chisel\par
\par
\cf5\fs24 Language Skills:\par
\cf0\fs20\par
Dialect of Rhuid\par
Dialect of Cier\par
Dialect of Avend\par
Dialect of Hamand\par
\par
\cf5\fs24 Miscelaneous Skills:\par
\cf0\fs20\par
Sneak\par
Hide\par
Camoflauge   prereq sn/hide\par
Bind\par
Track\par
Throw\par
\par
\cf5\fs24 Advanced Combat Skills:\par
\cf0\fs20\par
Force\par
Brute Strength\par
Crush\par
Rock's Skin\par
Stone's Veins\par
Mountain's Heart\par
Boulder's Patience\par
Forked Lightning\par
Strength of Air\par
Plucking Feathers\par
Hurricane's Eye\par
Envenom\par
Detect Poisons\par
Boobytrap\par
Owl Eyes\par
Sense Movement\par
Detect Hidden\par
Talon Clutch\par
Dragon's Breath\par
Dragon's Fury\par
\par
\par
\par
\cf3\fs24 Gameplay\par
1. Life and Death\par
2. Time\par
3. Weather\par
4. Real Fast Food\par
5. Items/Objects (Weapons, Tools, and Fashion Statements)\par
\par
\par
\par
World\par
1. Terrain\par
2. Species\par
\cf0\fs20 Species:\par
\par
Rabbit\tab\tab\tab Waterboar\par
Rat\tab\tab\tab Wolf\par
Mammoth\tab\tab Raccoon\par
Saber Tooth\tab\tab Badger\par
Goat\tab\tab\tab Ground Sloth\par
Grizzly Bear\tab\tab Wooly Rhinoceras\par
Polar Bear\tab\tab Musk-Ox\par
Cougar\tab\tab\tab Corlm\par
Grass Snake\tab\tab Grolm\par
Rattlesnake\par
Alligator\par
Boar\par
Deer\par
\par
\cf3\fs24 3. Climate\par
\par
\par
\par
Combat\par
1. \par
2. Styles\par
\cf0\fs20 Fighting styles vary from eachother in benefits and skills.  If a player finds a Master of a style, they must have the style's three prerequisite skills at level 8 or higher.\par
\par
Also, the Wheel etc etc etc\par
\par
Fighting styles are listed and described:\par
\par
\par
\cf2\fs28 The Dragon\par
\fs20 Equal Against: Wind, Dragon, Rock\par
Strong Against: Spider, Lightning\par
Weak Against: Ogier, Owl\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab At Selection\tab\tab\tab At Mastery\par
Bonus to Character:\tab None\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab N/A\tab\tab\tab\tab N/A\par
Innate Skills:\tab\tab None\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab N/A\tab\tab\tab\tab N/A\par
Command Skills:\tab Dragon's Breath\tab\tab\tab\tab Can Make DB\tab\tab\tab DB x 2\par
\tab\tab\tab Dragon's Fury\tab\tab\tab\tab Dam/NME + 2\tab\tab\tab Dam/NME +4\par
\par
\fs28 The Rock\par
\fs20 Equal Against: Dragon, Rock, Ogier\par
Strong Against: Lightning, Wind\par
Weak Against: Owl, Spider\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab At Selection\tab\tab\tab At Mastery\par
Bonus to Character:\tab Constitution\tab\tab\tab\tab +1\tab\tab\tab\tab +2\par
Innate Skills:\tab\tab Rock's Skin\tab\tab\tab\tab -2 Dam Taken\tab\tab\tab -4 Dam Taken\par
\tab\tab\tab Stone's Veins\tab\tab\tab\tab Pois. Duration 1/2\tab\tab Pois. Duration 1/4\par
\tab\tab\tab Mountain's Heart\tab\tab\tab +3 HP tick regen\tab\tab +5 HP tick regen\par
\tab\tab\tab Boulder's Patience\tab\tab\tab -1 STAM penalty cmbt/rnd\tab No STAM penalty in cmbt\par
Command Skills:  \tab None\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab N/A\tab\tab\tab\tab N/A\par
\par
\cf0\par
\cf2\fs28 The Ogier\par
\fs20 Equal Against: Rock, Ogier, Owl\par
Strong Against: Wind, Dragon\par
Weak Against: Spider, Lightning\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab At Selection\tab\tab\tab At Mastery\par
Bonus to Character:\tab Strength\tab\tab\tab\tab +1\tab\tab\tab\tab +2\par
Innate Skills:\tab\tab Force\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab 25% of weaponlocks\tab\tab 75% of weaponlocks\par
\tab\tab\tab Brute Strength\tab\tab\tab\tab +5 dam to opp. weapon\tab\tab +15 dam to opp. weapon\par
Command Skills:\tab Crush\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Dam x2\tab\tab\tab\tab Dam x4\par
Notes: Can only be used with a medium or large weapon\par
\cf0\par
\cf2\fs28 The Owl\par
\fs20 Equal Against: Ogier, Owl, Spider\par
Strong Against: Dragon, Rock\par
Weak Against: Lightning, Wind\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab At Selection\tab\tab\tab At Mastery\par
Bonus to Character:\tab Senses\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab +1\tab\tab\tab\tab +2\par
Innate Skills:\tab\tab Owl Eyes\tab\tab\tab\tab +2 Vision\tab\tab\tab Can see all except pitch\par
\tab\tab\tab Sense Movement\tab\tab\tab Sense Motion at 3 Rooms\tab Sense Motion at 6 Rooms\par
\tab\tab\tab Detect Hidden\tab\tab\tab\tab +4 Detection Rolls\tab\tab +10 Detection Rolls\par
\tab\tab\tab Talon Clutch\tab\tab\tab\tab 75% Catch Thrown Weap\tab 95% Catch Thrown Weap\par
Command Skills:\tab None\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab N/A\tab\tab\tab\tab N/A\par
\par
\par
\fs28 The Spider\par
\fs20 Equal Against: Owl, Spider, Lightning\par
Strong Against: Rock, Ogier\par
Weak Against: Wind, Dragon\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab At Selection\tab\tab\tab At Mastery\par
Bonus to Character:\tab Intelligence\tab\tab\tab\tab +1\tab\tab\tab\tab +2\par
Innate Skills:\tab\tab Detect Poisons\tab\tab\tab\tab Detect 3 Low\tab\tab\tab Detect 3 High\par
Command Skills:\tab Envenom\tab\tab\tab\tab 3 Low Poisons\tab\tab\tab 3 High Poisons\par
\tab\tab\tab Boobytrap\tab\tab\tab\tab Can Set Traps\tab\tab\tab +5 to Trap Setting Roll\par
\tab\tab\tab Binding\tab Bonus\tab\tab\tab\tab +2 to Binding\tab\tab\tab +4 to Binding\par
\par
\par
\fs28 The Lightning\par
\fs20 Equal Against: Spider, Lightning, Wind\par
Strong Against: Ogier, Owl\par
Weak Against: Dragon, Rock\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab At Selection\tab\tab\tab At Mastery\par
Bonus to Character:\tab Dexterity\tab\tab\tab\tab +1\tab\tab\tab\tab +2\par
Innate Skills:\tab\tab Forked Lightning\tab\tab\tab 2nd w/ 1/3 Dam\tab\tab\tab 2nd w/ 1/2 Dam,3rd w/ 1/3 Dam\par
Command Skills:\tab None\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab N/A\tab\tab\tab\tab N/A\par
Notes: Can only be used with a medium or small weapon\par
\par
\fs28 The Wind\par
\fs20 Equal Against: Lightning, Wind, Dragon\par
Strong Against: Spider, Owl\par
Weak Against: Rock, Ogier\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab At Selection\tab\tab\tab At Mastery\par
Bonus to Character:\tab Agility\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab +1\tab\tab\tab\tab +2\par
Innate Skills:\tab\tab Strength of Air\tab\tab\tab\tab Enemy's INIT +2 or >\tab\tab Enemy's INIT or >\par
\tab\tab\tab Plucking Feathers\tab\tab\tab 1% of Combat Rnds\tab\tab 2% of Cmbt Rnds\par
Command Skills:\tab Huricane's Eye\tab\tab\tab\tab 25% Enemy Flee\tab\tab 75% Enemy Flee\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\cf0\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\cf3\fs24 3. \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Music (Who done said we ain't cultured?)\par
1. \par
2. \par
3. \par
\cf0\fs20\par
\par
1d10 + ATTR + 1dSkill\par
\par
Skills leveled 1-10\par
\par
Skills increase:\par
INT - # of ABIL = N\par
\par
N tries of\par
lvl 1  -  1d20\par
lvl 2  -  1d40\par
lvl 3  -  1d80\par
lvl 4  -  1d160\par
lvl 5  -  1d320\par
lvl 6  -  1d640\par
lvl 7  -  1d1280\par
lvl 8  -  1d2560\par
lvl 9  -  1d5120\par
lvl 10 -  1d10240\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Non-Skill Commands:\par
Eat, Drink, North, South, East, West, Get, Drop, Use/Wear, Put, Items, Follow, Group\par
\par
Attr Commands:\par
Pull, Push, Drag, Chop\par
\par
Skills:\par
Melee\par
Throw\par
Jab\par
Slash\par
Club\par
Skin\par
Butcher\par
Cook\par
Climb\par
Swim\par
Track\par
Ignite\par
Bash\par
Dodge\par
Carve\par
Sew (Adorn)\par
Sneak\par
\par
Each added Ability subtracts 1 from INT\par
\par
Abilities:\par
\par
\par
Combat:\par
\par
Initiative\par
Hit/Dodge\par
Block\par
Damage\par
\par
Let's say there are two combatants, Urg and Gunk.\par
\par
First, Initiaitive is rolled.  Whoever has the highest Initiative attacks first.  Initiative has no other purpose but to see who goes first.\par
1d10 + AGL + MOD     Modifiers include negatives from weapon size, clothes, and wounds, and positives from bonedust and Fast Feet.\par
Urg rolls a 12 Initiative and Gunk rolls a 14.  Gunk attacks first.\par
\par
\par
Next, rolls are done to see if Urg is able to avoid Gunk's attack.\par
Gunk's hit roll is 1d10 + DEX +1dSK (Weapon Skill Gunk is using) + MOD   Gunk rolls a 16\par
Urg's dodge roll is 1d10 + AGL + 1dSK(Urg's Dodge skill) - MOD       Urg rolls a 13\par
Urg is hit by Gunk   (If Gunk misses Urg, rolls are done to see if Urg can hit Gunk)\par
\par
\par
Next\par
}
 