{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\lang1033\f0\fs28 Last Modified 5/9/02\par
Updates from previous version in \cf1 RED\cf0\fs20\par
\cf2\fs24\par
\par
Skill list\par
\cf3\fs20  \par
Dagger\par
\tab -Backstab (reqs. Surgery)\par
\tab -Fling (throws knife at victim, dam*2)\par
\tab -Embed (burries and leaves knife in VICTIM's LODGED slot, -2 AGL -1 STR -1 DEX for each knife)\par
\tab\tab -Hurl (reqs Fling, throws knife at victim. EMBEDs knife in LODGED, same negs as Embed, can target adj. rooms)\par
Spear\par
\tab -Throw (throws spear at VICTIM, dam*3)\par
\tab -Vault (Polevault kick in the air, seperate hit/dodge -3 to hit, no parry no block, 1d10 + STR dam and equal penalty to stam)\par
\tab -Trip (knocks VICTIM to feet, forced POS_RESTING)\par
\tab -Pike (player's INIT=1, 1d10 + WEAPDAM to VICTIM before VICTIM's attack)\par
Staff\par
\tab -Trip (knocks VICTIM to feet, forced POS_RESTING)\par
\tab -Thump (targets VICTIM's head, chance to render unconscious * 3)\par
\tab -Rebound (bounces staff off of VICTIM and strikes them with the other end, hit/dodge rerolled with -4 hitroll and -4 damroll)\par
\tab -SpinAttack (once initiated, applies damage to all enemies, +5 INIT, -5 Hitroll)\par
\tab -SpinBlock (once initiated, -10 INIT, -5 Hitroll, +7 Parry)\par
Sword\par
\tab -Wind over the Wall (negate's VICTIM's parry/block for one round)\par
\tab -Woodgrouse Dances (+7 to dodgeroll for one round)\par
\tab -Lightning of Three Prongs (3 hitroll/dodgerolls are done, each succesful attack is -3 damroll)\par
\tab -Heron in the Rushes (INIT=1, Dodgeroll=1, +20 hitroll, parry disabled damage recieved * 5,  dam given * 10 even if dead)\par
\tab -Segade Thorns (+1 Hitroll, +1 Damroll, incremental every combat round)\par
\tab -Water on the Duck (+1 Dodgeroll, +1 Parry, incremental every combat round)\par
Axe\par
\tab -Crush (if attack is shield blocked, chance to break shield)\par
\tab -Rend (any succesful attacks have a 30% chance to destroy eq of hit location)\par
\tab -Behead (if successful, insta and full pk of VICTIM, -7 hitroll, )\par
Whipchain\par
\tab -Sweep (yanks VICTIM's to feet out from under them, forced POS_RESTING)\par
\tab -Strangle (wraps about VICTIM's neck, 1d3 dam per round, combat between player and VICTIM voided until strangle broken)\par
\tab -Eyelash (makes a calculated strike for the eyes, if successful, VICTIM is BLIND until treated with SURGERY)\par
Club\par
\tab -Sap (renders VICTIM unconscious for 60 seconds)\par
\tab -Blundgeon (big home-run swing, -6 hitroll -6 dodgeroll, dam*5)\par
Unarmed Combat\par
\tab -Snatch (disarms opponent and puts opponent's weapon in player's inventory)\par
\tab -Jab (small, extra hit for Unarmed, 1d5 dam)\par
\tab -Chokehold (renders victim unconscious if not broken in 5 seconds)\par
\tab -Inner Strength (reqs 20 Stamina, +12 INIT + 12 Hitroll + 12 Damroll + 12 Dodgeroll for one round)\par
\tab -Knee (knee's target in the groin, sets target's INIT to 1 for 2 rounds and 1d3 damage)\par
Archery (4 sizes for bows, 1d10 + SEN + 1dSK == Aim, (1d10 + STR + Arrow) * 3 == Dam, arrows LODGED) nock - draw - loose\par
\tab -Sighting (+1-3 to Aim)\par
\tab -Airspeed (+1-3 to Aim)\par
\tab -Twinshot\par
\tab -Lifting (+1 to Range)\par
Parry\par
Block (Shield Block)\par
Catch (Catch thrown weapons/arrows)\par
Disarm\par
Quickdraw (an auto-draw of sheathed weapon when disarmed or when weapon is thrown)\par
Guard (allows player to redirect one enemy's aggression to themselves if enemy attacks player they're guarding)\cf2\par
\cf0 Forage\tab\tab 1d10 + INT + 1dSK >=17 (No Reqs.) Creates Food (small item i.e. nuts, berries, roots)\par
Fish\tab\tab 1d10 + INT + 1dSK >=17 (Requires Fishing Rod) Creates Small Fish, if roll > 27 Creates Large Fish (Raw Meat)\par
Skin\tab\tab 1d10 + DEX + 1dSK >= 20 (Requires Knife) Creates Hide\par
Butcher\tab\tab 1d10 + STR + 1dSK >= 17 (Requires Knife) Creates Raw Meat\par
Ignite   \tab\tab 1d10 + DEX + 1dSK >= 17 (Requires Flint in Inv. , Wood on ground, and NORAIN) - Creates Fire on ground\par
Pitch   \tab\tab 1d10 + INT + 1dSK >= 17 (Requires Tarp in Inv.) - Creates Tent\par
Cook   \tab\tab 1d10 + INT + 1dSK >= 17 (Requires Raw Meat in Inv. , Fire on ground) - Creates Cooked Meat\par
Waterseek \tab 1d10 + SENS + 1dSK >= 17 (No Reqs.) Roll x 2 = Water Units Found - Creates Pool of Water\par
\par
Bandaging\par
\tab -Medicines\par
\tab\tab -Poisons\par
\tab\tab\tab -Toxins\par
\tab -Surgery\par
\tab\tab -Bone Setting\par
\cf2\fs24\par
\par
\par
\par
Combat Skills:\par
\cf0\fs20\par
\par
\pard\sb100\sa100 Name of skill\par
\tab Description\line\tab How hard it is to learn (1 - 50)\line\tab How hard it is to level (1 - 50)\line\tab Legal targets\line\tab Position for user\line\tab Damage message\line\tab Wear off message?\line\tab Wear off object message?\line\pard\tab Prerequisite Skill 1\par
\tab Prerequisite Skill 2\par
\par
\par
\par
Position for User\par
Damage Message\par
Wear off Message\par
Wear off object Message\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\cf2\fs24 Survival Skills:\par
\cf0\fs20\par
\par
\cf2\fs24 Stealth Skills:\par
\cf0\fs20\par
\cf4 //All players can see one room in any direction by typing "look north" and be shown all *PC in the room\par
//The Survey Skill enables the player to search all 6 directions at once and, with a good roll, enable them to look further\par
//Survey also filters the content of the findings for what the player is looking for.\par
//If you're looking for a friend in a herd of buffalo you would "Survey players"\par
\cf0\par
Survey <animals|humans|players|all>  (without argument defaults to all)\par
Survey\tab\tab 1d10 + SENS + 1dSk     1-15 = 1 room vis\tab 16-30 = 2 room vis\tab 31-45 = 3 room vis\tab (and so on)\par
\par
\cf4 //The Scan command, like "look", shows the player one direction.  It can see further than Survey\par
\cf0\par
Scan <direction> <animals|humans|players|all>  (without argument defaults to all)\par
Scan\tab\tab 1d10 + SENS + 1dSk\tab 1-10 = 1 room vis\tab 11-20 = 2 room vis\tab 21-30 = 3 room vis\tab (and so on)\par
\par
\cf4 //If weather is RAINing there will be a -6 to the roll\par
//If the weather is FOGgy there will be a -12 to the roll\par
//If the time of day is Twilight there will be a -2 to the roll\par
//If the time of day is Night there will be a -12 to the roll\par
//If the player is on high ground such as a tower or watchpost there will be a +6 to the roll (will need room flag for this)\par
//If the player has a spyglass the result of the roll is x2\par
//If the player has a dual scope (binoculars) the result of the roll is x3\cf0\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\cf4 //Tracks are made by animals and people.  Tracks cannot be made on Mountain, City, or Water terrain.  Formula for\par
//track laying is:\par
//A deer leaves in a direction (we'll say north)\par
//A track (object or affect) is loaded into the room and set at level 1\par
//The track is flagged HIDDEN (or some such)\par
//The track's short desc is:   (There are *deer tracks leading *north.)\par
//Every 30 seconds, the value of the track is raised by 1...so after 15 RL minutes, the Track's value is 31\par
//At any time, a player with the Search Skill may type it, and if successful at their Searching,\par
//Will be shown the specie and direction.\par
\cf0\par
Search\tab\tab 1d10 + SENS + 1dSK >= Track level    (No Reqs.)\par
\par
\cf4 //In theory, after 20 minutes, with a track level of 41, no one would be able to see the track, and we could simply have it vanish.\par
//Perhaps a little fast for true realism, but it will cut down on tracks all over, and although mobs don't move that fast, we don't want\par
//players trying to track a player's location from 20 minutes ago... he could be halfway to the other side of the island.\par
//Variables such as rain (which would make tracks easier made) could set the track level at some negative number so as\par
//to increase the time it lasts.\par
\cf0\par
Trackless\tab 1d10 + AGIL + 1dSK == Track level caused    (No Reqs.)\par
\par
\cf4 //Players who try moving trackless are penalized with a stamina penalty (stam x 3), but the tracks they make are the result\par
//of the above roll.  A master of trackless movement with 10 AGIL would (theoretically) place Tracks at 22 on average.\par
//Difficult even for a master of Searching to notice.\par
\cf0\par
\cf4 //For tracking down people in the city, which has stone and cobble and hard packed dirt, the Locate Skill can be used.\par
//Locate is a street-smart skill, only useable in city areas.\par
\cf0\par
Locate\tab <player|humanmob>\par
Locate\tab\tab 1d10 + INT + 1dSK >= PlayerLOC\par
\par
\cf4 //Locate entails quietly asking around, giving the description of the player you're trying to locate.  There must be a humanmob\par
//in the room to use locate.  The closer you are to the person you're looking for, the more likely the Mob will have seen them\par
//and recognize them by your description.  Also, the more the person you're looking for trusts you, the more likely you\par
//know their manerisms to better describe them.  You cannot Locate players that have not greeted you.\par
\cf0\par
PlayerLOC==\tab 1d10 + (# of rooms from Player trying to locate you) - (TRUST)\par
\par
\cf2\fs24\par
Stealth Skills\par
\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\sb100\sa100 Sneak 1d10 + AGL + 1dSK > DETECTION\line Sneak hides a player's departure and entrance if successful.\line Sneak does not hide presence, so if someone sneaks into a room and another player types 'look' they will be seen.\line Sneak - Checked on Entrance and Exit by all\line\line Hide 1d10 + INT + 1dSK > DETECTION\line Hide conceals a player from others in a room. It doesn't hide entrances or departures.\line Hide - Checked when a player types 'look' by player who 'looks'\line\line Palm 1d10 + DEX + 1dSK > DETECTION\line Palm takes an item in a room, not in anyone's inventory, and places it in yours. A snatch and grab, if you will.\line Palm - Checked when you attempt to 'Palm' by all\line\line Peek 1d10 + SENS + 1dSK > DETECTION\line Peek checks the inventory of a player.\line Peek - Checked when you attempt to 'Peek' by all\line\line Steal 1d10 + DEX + 1dSK > DETECTION\line Steal attempts to extract a single item from a victim without their knowing.\line Steal - Checked when you attempt to 'Steal' by all\line\line Camoflauge 1d10 + INT + 1dSK (requires paint of some kind)\line Camoflauge enhances a player's ability to blend in to their surroundings. The result of the roll reflects the bonus given to all SNEAK/HIDE/PALM/PEEK/STEAL rolls.\line Roll = 1-10 (+1) 11-20 (+2) 21-30 (+3) 31-40 (+4)\line\line\line So what is this DETECTION?\line DETECTION = 1d10 + SENS\line\line Bonuses to DETECTION are given in Abilities, or increased SENS ATTRibute. The victim of a steal gets a +5 DETECTION on their "saving throw" roll.\line\par
\pard\par
\par
Climb\cf2\fs24\par
\cf0\fs20\par
Climb\par
Swim\par
Hew  prereq slash\par
\par
\cf2\fs24 Crafting Skills:\par
\cf0\fs20\par
Carve\par
Chisel\par
Make  prereq carve/chisel\par
\par
\cf2\fs24 Educational Skills:\par
\cf0\fs20\par
Dialect of Rhuid\par
Dialect of Cier\par
Dialect of Avend\par
Dialect of Hamand\par
\par
\par
\cf2\fs24 Muscial Skills:\par
\cf0\fs20\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\cf2\fs24 Miscelaneous Skills:\par
\cf0\fs20\par
Sneak\par
Hide\par
Camoflauge   prereq sn/hide\par
Bind\par
Track\par
Throw\par
\par
\cf2\fs24 Advanced Combat Skills:\par
\cf0\fs20\par
Force\par
Brute Strength\par
Crush\par
Rock's Skin\par
Stone's Veins\par
Mountain's Heart\par
Boulder's Patience\par
Forked Lightning\par
Strength of Air\par
Plucking Feathers\par
Hurricane's Eye\par
Envenom\par
Detect Poisons\par
Boobytrap\par
Owl Eyes\par
Sense Movement\par
Detect Hidden\par
Talon Clutch\par
Dragon's Breath\par
Dragon's Fury\par
\par
}
 